---
title: Simple Harmonic Motion 
author: Satvik Anand
date: 2025-01-06
---

[Periodic Motion :-]{.define} The motion which repeats itself after a fixed interval of time are called periodic motion. 

:::{.note}
Examples:- 

1. Motion of planet around the sun .

2. Motion of electron around the nucleus.
 
[3.]{.highlight} Motion of Liquid kept in a <b>U</b> shaped tube.

4. Motion of earth around the sun.

5. Rotation of earth around it's axis.
   
[6.]{.highlight} Motion of the bob of a pendulum when it is displaced from it's stable equilibrium position.

[7.]{.highlight} Motion of a block attached to one end of a spring and other end of the spring is fixed and the block is slightly displaced from it's stable equilibrium.

:::

---

[Oscillatory Motion:-]{.define} The to-and-fro motion or back and forth motion of an object about it's mean position between 2 extreme limits are called oscillatory motion or vibratory motion.

Eg:-
[3.]{.highlight} ,
[6.]{.highlight} ,
[7.]{.highlight} represent oscillatory motion.

[NOTE- All Oscillatory motion are periodic motion but all periodic motions are not oscillatory.]{.sticky-note}

[NOTE- In oscillation frequency is small and i in vibration frequency will be more.]{.sticky-note}

---

[Periodic Function:-]{.define} A function which repeats it's value after a fixed interval of time is called a periodic function. 

Eg:- The sin and cosine functions are the periodic function only.

[NOTE:- The tangent function though repeat their value after finite interval of time but at certain instances the values are non terminating , so tangent functions aren't considered periodic]{.sticky-note}

---

# Fourier Series. 